engine/networking overhaul (#17176)
docker/docs: network/index.md

| `-p 8080:80`                    | Map TCP port 80 in the container to port `8080` on the Docker host.                                                                                   |
| `-p 192.168.1.100:8080:80`      | Map TCP port 80 in the container to port `8080` on the Docker host for connections to host IP `192.168.1.100`.                                        |
| `-p 8080:80/udp`                | Map UDP port 80 in the container to port `8080` on the Docker host.                                                                                   |
| `-p 8080:80/tcp -p 8080:80/udp` | Map TCP port 80 in the container to TCP port `8080` on the Docker host, and map UDP port `80` in the container to UDP port `8080` on the Docker host. |

> **Important**
>
> Publishing container ports is insecure by default. Meaning, when you publish
> a container's ports it becomes available not only to the Docker host, but to
> the outside world as well.
>
> To publish a container's port and only expose it to the Docker host, include

> > the localhost IP address (`127.0.0.1`) in the port mapping command.

Reviewer: Presently, this is still reachable via connected LAN hosts and potentially to the published container IP + port: https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/45610#issuecomment-1562191303

Not sure if you want to raise awareness of that risk, but might make sense to if a fix will take some time to address.

Author: added: https://github.com/docker/docs/pull/17176/commits/84c5b318f5e600d649b9954950305c48ef07ffe5

| `-p 8080:80`                    | Map TCP port 80 in the container to port `8080` on the Docker host.                                                                                   |
| `-p 192.168.1.100:8080:80`      | Map TCP port 80 in the container to port `8080` on the Docker host for connections to host IP `192.168.1.100`.                                        |
| `-p 8080:80/udp`                | Map UDP port 80 in the container to port `8080` on the Docker host.                                                                                   |
| `-p 8080:80/tcp -p 8080:80/udp` | Map TCP port 80 in the container to TCP port `8080` on the Docker host, and map UDP port `80` in the container to UDP port `8080` on the Docker host. |

> **Important**
>
> Publishing container ports is insecure by default. Meaning, when you publish
> a container's ports it becomes available not only to the Docker host, but to
> the outside world as well.
>
> If you include the localhost IP address (`127.0.0.1`) with the publish flag,

> > only the Docker host, and other systems connected to the same LAN, can access

Reviewer 2: I haven't had time to look at everything yet, but I didn't want to potentially let this slip by:

LAN isn't accurate here; a LAN is just that -- a local network, which can be switched or routed.

This is referring to the ability to use a container host as a gateway that routes packets to the container bridge subnet by adding an explicit route: this **only** works on the same switched (and not routed) network segment.

Reviewer: That'd be my fault as I don't know networking that well and only understood earlier discussions referred to [other hosts on a LAN](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/22054#issuecomment-1163696666) (_and something about network supporting [layer 2 switching](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/14041#issuecomment-223467379)?_).

I could easily reproduce it with two VMs in the same network, and two VPS instances in the same network. Connecting to ports published on the docker host at `127.0.0.1` and without firewalld to docker bridges (eg: `172.17.0.0/16`).

I [suggested that the earlier iteration may want to also warn users](https://github.com/docker/docs/pull/17176#discussion_r1212620404) about connectivity not being only restricted to `127.0.0.1` within the Docker host, as one would have expected, but wasn't sure how to communicate that.

I know that it's not reachable by default, and requires the other host to configure an explicit route to the docker hosts target subnet. That'd probably get a bit verbose to detail in these docs though?

---

For the docs perhaps warning of an exception for `-p 127.0.0.1:host_port:container_port` that links to the [associated Github issue](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/45610) would be appropriate?

Reviewer 2: I think tweaking the wording here is fine, unless we become certain this will be the status quo for a long time. I'm hoping that if we can find a way to keep those packets out without breaking any other aspect of behavior, we can just call it a bug and backport the change.

In any case, "supporting layer 2 switching" is something all networks do -- basically, for this to work you have to not cross a router (as otherwise it's up to **the router's routing table** where the packets go, and not solely your local machine). You must be on the **same layer 2 fabric* -- for a home network, that's the same thing as the LAN.

However, the moment you introduce additional routed local networks that collectively make a local **area** network (e.g. multiple VLANs, each with their own subnet, with a router moving packets between them), this equivalence breaks down; thus the need to be more precise here.

Reviewer: > I'm hoping that if we can find a way to keep those packets out without breaking any other aspect of behavior, we can just call it a bug and backport the change.

For `127.0.0.1` / `127.0.0.0/8` I think that should be fine with the [added restriction on `PREROUTING`](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/45610#issuecomment-1562191303). I don't know about the other issue with routing to docker networks, linking to the issue for more information at least provides a workaround and can be subscribed for updates/fix. I assume the upcoming IPVS alternative might also avoid it, if so affected users could be encouraged to migrate to that instead.

> thus the need to be more precise here.

You probably understand the docs audience better than I would.

The bulk of the users that actually read the docs may lack the expertise for the extra precision in docs to be of value to them, thus the added verbosity may be better served by linking to the dedicated Github issue?

- It'd keep the docs more focused by reducing noise, while providing all the technical details to those curious or with the relevant expertise to make sense of it (_and potentially provide positive contributions_).
- It's also content that ideally isn't relevant to expand on in the docs since it's more of a bug than actual supported functionality to document.
- Even for those that don't grok the details well, a tracking issue at least provides visibility of the status (_as docs may fall out of sync, like this PR drops outdated information regarding forwarding that was reported years ago_), plus a subscribe button to be notified when it's resolved.

---

This suggestion probably needs to be reworded, but might be succinct enough?

```suggestion
> only the Docker host can access the published container port.
> **Warning:** Hosts within the same local network may be capable
> of routing to that private network port of the Docker host.
> For details, see [moby/moby#45610](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/45610).
```

- I'm not sure if you'd refer to it as a private or internal network of the docker host.
- Is routing correct?
  
  I know that it's handled via `ip route` command which directs the IP or subnet specified traffic through to the docker host LAN IP.
  I assume that would otherwise be directed to an upstream router from the default routes gateway? And since the Docker host enabled `ip_forward=1`, it's behaving as a router as you mentioned earlier.

Reviewer 3: Although we discussed it during our daily meeting, I'm still quite on the fence here. I don't feel comfortable to talk about a security issue in our docs, but on the other hand the initial claim was a lie (that ports published on 127.0.0.1 are only accessible from the Docker host), so...

@dvdksn Can you apply this suggestion, or something along the lines (it probably needs to be properly reworded)?

```suggestion
> only the Docker host can access the published container port.
> **Warning:** Hosts within the same L2 segment (eg. connected
> to the same network switch) can reach those ports published to
> 127.0.0.1. For details, see [moby/moby#45610](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/45610).
```

As for the the other, similar security issues, I think we're ok not talking about them.

| `--hostname`   | The hostname a container uses for itself. Defaults to the container's ID if not specified.                                                                                                                                                                          |

### Name resolution with multiple nameservers

When you specify multiple DNS servers using `--dns` flags, name resolution may
work in a surprising or unexpected way. DNS lookup behavior depends on a number
of different factors:

- Whether the container OS runs on [musl or glibc](https://wiki.musl-libc.org/functional-differences-from-glibc.html#Name_Resolver/DNS){: target="blank" rel="noopener" }
- Whether the Docker daemon binary is [statically or dynamically linked](https://pkg.go.dev/net#hdr-Name_Resolution){: target="blank" rel="noopener" }
- If dynamically linked, which version of glibc that's used
- Whether or not [nsswitch.conf is present](https://tldp.org/LDP/nag2/x-087-2-resolv.library.html#X-087-2-RESOLV.NSSWITCH-CONF){: target="blank" rel="noopener" }

Under most circumstances, name resolution with multiple nameservers should work
as follows:

> 1. The container emits requests to all nameservers that you specify.

Author: Removing this section; per our discussion

  - /articles/networking/
  - /config/containers/container-networking/
---

Container networking refers to the ability for containers to connect to and
communicate with each other, or to non-Docker workloads.

A container has no information about what kind of network it's attached to,
or whether their peers are also Docker workloads or not.
A container only sees a network interface with an IP address,
a gateway, a routing table, DNS services, and other networking details.
That is, unless the container uses the `none` network driver.
This page describes networking from the point of view of the container.

This page describes the concepts around container networking.
This page doesn't describe OS-specific details about how Docker networks work.
For information about how Docker manipulates `iptables` rules on Linux,
see [Docker and iptables](iptables.md).

## Published ports

By default, when you create or run a container using `docker create` or `docker run`,
the container doesn't expose any of its ports to the outside world.
To make a port available to services outside of Docker,
or to Docker containers running on a different network,

> use the `--publish` or `-p` flag.

Author: Yeah, gotcha. I'll remove the second part of this paragraph from here for that reason: publishing ports is not for facilitating container-to-container connections.

This creates a firewall rule in the container,
mapping a container port to a port on the Docker host to the outside world.
Here are some examples:

> 

Author: Noted for a follow-up

| `-p 8080:80/udp`                | Map UDP port 80 in the container to port `8080` on the Docker host.                                                                                   |
| `-p 8080:80/tcp -p 8080:80/udp` | Map TCP port 80 in the container to TCP port `8080` on the Docker host, and map UDP port `80` in the container to UDP port `8080` on the Docker host. |

## IP address and hostname

By default, the container gets an IP address for every Docker network it attaches to.
A container receives an IP address out of the IP pool of the network it attaches to.
The Docker daemon effectively acts as a DHCP server for each container.
Each network also has a default subnet mask and gateway.

When a container starts, it can only attach to a single network, using the `--network` flag.
You can connect a running container to multiple networks using the `docker network connect` command.
When you start a container using the `--network` flag,
you can specify the IP address for the container on that network using the `--ip` or `--ip6` flags.

When you connect an existing container to a different network using `docker network connect`,

> you can use the `--ip` or `--ip6` flags on that command

Author: Actually, I've used flags consistently on purpose. My reference for doing so comes from here: https://clig.dev/#arguments-and-flags

to specify the container's IP address on the additional network.

In the same way, a container's hostname defaults to be the container's ID in Docker.
You can override the hostname using `--hostname`.
When connecting to an existing network using `docker network connect`,
you can use the `--alias` flag to specify an additional network alias for the container on that network.

## DNS services

> By default, containers inherit the DNS settings of the host, as defined in the `/etc/resolv.conf` configuration file.

Reviewer 4: I recall working on some of the "hashData" code a while back; https://github.com/moby/moby/blob/8d67d0c1a8d28ad4014444edc6b9975f9877b1d6/libnetwork/resolvconf/utils.go#L8-L14

Which I seem to recall, was used to detect whether the file was modified, and (MAYBE) was used to decide whether or not the `/etc/resolv.conf` could be updated, or should stay untouched (to prevent overwriting user's modifications) I really need to check on that though.

> By default, containers inherit the DNS settings of the host, as defined in the `/etc/resolv.conf` configuration file.

Reviewer 3: The hash of `resolv.conf` is used here: https://github.com/moby/moby/blob/8d67d0c1a8d28ad4014444edc6b9975f9877b1d6/libnetwork/sandbox_dns_unix.go#L313-L317. This code only checks whether the container's `resolv.conf` has been edited by the end-user, and if not (re)writes it. AFAIK, it's run during live-restore and when `--link` is used.

For the upstream DNS server(s) used by embedded resolver, we have a `(*Sandbox).rebuildDNS()` which could do that. But its name is a bit misleading because it's only called by `(*Sandbox).startResolver()` and gated by a `!restore`. So, at this point _I think_ we never re-read host `resolv.conf` to update existing embedded resolver, even during a live restore. But I might be wrong, libnetwork being what it is.

> By default, containers inherit the DNS settings of the host, as defined in the `/etc/resolv.conf` configuration file.

Author: I see no action to take here for now. As stated earlier, we will do networking differences between CE/DD in a follow-up.

Containers that attach to the default `bridge` network receive a copy of this file.
Containers that attach to a
[custom network](network-tutorial-standalone.md#use-user-defined-bridge-networks)

> use Docker's embedded DNS server.

Reviewer 3: I think we should keep this section straightforward and not mention the `127.0.0.11`. However I'm wondering if we should create "in-depth" docs pages about DNS and other stuff :thinking:

> use Docker's embedded DNS server.

Reviewer 3: @dvdksn Can you add an item on your todo list about that please :arrow_up:?

| `-p 8080:80/udp`                | Map UDP port 80 in the container to port `8080` on the Docker host.                                                                                   |
| `-p 8080:80/tcp -p 8080:80/udp` | Map TCP port 80 in the container to TCP port `8080` on the Docker host, and map UDP port `80` in the container to UDP port `8080` on the Docker host. |

> **Important**
>
> Publishing container ports is insecure by default. Meaning, when you publish
> a container's ports it becomes available not only to the Docker host, but to

> > the outside world as well.

Author: Added a note about this elsewhere

| `--dns-opt`    | A key-value pair representing a DNS option and its value. See your operating system's documentation for `resolv.conf` for valid options.                                                                                                                            |
| `--hostname`   | The hostname a container uses for itself. Defaults to the container's ID if not specified.                                                                                                                                                                          |

### Name resolution with multiple nameservers

When you specify multiple DNS servers using `--dns` flags, name resolution may
work in a surprising or unexpected way. DNS lookup behavior depends on a number

> of different factors:

Reviewer 3: Ah right... We probably need to document how dns works with the default bridge. I think this could be done in a follow-up PR, to make @dvdksn life easier.

> of different factors:

Author: After discussing with @akerouanton - this section can be removed because it simply isn't how hostname lookup works. Hostname lookup with the embedded nameserver and glibc is always done sequentially. There is a race condition that may occur with musl and nameservers using ipv6 addresses, which is documented in the following section.

- Whether the container OS runs on [musl or glibc](https://wiki.musl-libc.org/functional-differences-from-glibc.html#Name_Resolver/DNS){: target="blank" rel="noopener" }
- Whether the Docker daemon binary was [statically or dynamically linked](https://pkg.go.dev/net#hdr-Name_Resolution){: target="blank" rel="noopener" }
- If dynamically linked, which version of glibc that's used
- Whether or not [nsswitch.conf is present](https://tldp.org/LDP/nag2/x-087-2-resolv.library.html#X-087-2-RESOLV.NSSWITCH-CONF){: target="blank" rel="noopener" }

You may find that name resolution works as follows:

1. The container emits requests to **all** nameservers that you specify.
2. The container uses the first response returned by any of the nameservers.
   Even if the first response is `NXDOMAIN`, or similar.

> 

Reviewer 3: I think we should also specify that currently any DNS server with an IPv6 address specified in the host `/etc/resolv.conf` will end up in the containers' `/etc/resolv.conf`. In practice, this means that container hostnames might sporadically fail if the external IPv6 DNS server win the race against the embedded DNS server.

As this might be a bit confusing, we should state that nonetheless IPv6 DNS records (ie. AAAA) are properly handled by the embedded DNS server.

For the record, here's the issue reporting that: https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/41651.

2. The container uses the first response returned by any of the nameservers.
   Even if the first response is `NXDOMAIN`, or similar.

### IPv6 name resolution

The embedded DNS server handles both IPv4 and IPv6 name resolution. However,
there is a caveat in name resolution for IPv6.

Any IPv6 addresses specified in the `/etc/resolv.conf` file on the host system
get copied over to the `/etc/resolv.conf` file in containers that you run.

> In practice, this means that hostname resolution might sporadically fail if the

Reviewer 3: This race only happens when musl is used (ie. with alpine containers) :wink:

2. The container uses the first response returned by any of the nameservers.
   Even if the first response is `NXDOMAIN`, or similar.

### IPv6 name resolution

The embedded DNS server handles both IPv4 and IPv6 name resolution. However,
there is a caveat in name resolution for IPv6.

Any IPv6 addresses specified in the `/etc/resolv.conf` file on the host system

> get copied over to the `/etc/resolv.conf` file in containers that you run.

Reviewer 4: Hm.. do we do this as well if we use the embedded DNS? Or does this only apply to the default `bridge` network? @akerouanton ?

Reviewer 3: @thaJeztah Nope, it's not only for the `bridge` network unfortunately.
